Fonto: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Current_events (2014.03.20)

Topics in the news
    Following the passage of a secession referendum, the Republic of Crimea declares independence from Ukraine and begins the process of accession to the Russian Federation.
    Anna Fenninger (pictured) and Marcel Hirscher of Austria win the overall Alpine Skiing World Cup titles.
    The United States announces that it will relinquish control of the DNS root zone, removing its oversight of ICANN.
    In rugby union, the Six Nations concludes with Ireland winning the championship.
    Chiquita and Fyffes agree to a merger that would create the world's largest banana producer.
Recent deaths: Tony Benn – Bob Crow

March 20, 2014 (Thursday)
Disasters and accidents
    The Prime Minister of Australia, Tony Abbott, advises the Parliament that two objects possibly related to the search for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 have been located in the southern Indian Ocean. (Sky News), (Reuters)
Politics and elections
    Occupy Taiwan Legislature
        Thousands of riot police from the National Police Agency mobilize to surround the protesters. (CNN)

March 19, 2014 (Wednesday)
Armed conflict and attacks
    2014 Crimean crisis
        Russian forces overrun the Ukrainian Navy headquarters in Sevastopol and another naval base. (AFP via Google), (AP), (Reuters via Yahoo! News)
    Syrian Civil War:
        The Israeli Air Force launches several air strikes on Syrian military sites, killing 1 Syrian soldier and wounding 7 others, in retaliation for a bombing that wounded four of its troops in the occupied Golan Heights region.(BBC)
    Two Egyptian army officers and five militants are killed during a warehouse raid in Qalyubiya province north of Cairo. (NPR), (BBC)
Business and economy
    Toyota is ordered pay $1.2 billion to settle charges that it lied to United States safety investigators and the public about deadly accelerator defects. (AFP via Google News)
Politics and elections
    South Africa's Public Protector finds that President Jacob Zuma has "benefitted unduly" from government funded upgrades of his rural residence. (BBC)
    The Honourable Jim Flaherty, Canada's Minister of Finance, resigns, planning a return to the private sector. The Honourable Joe Oliver has been named to replace him. (National Post)
